# Monitoring in Google Cloud Dedicated versus Google Cloud

Source: https://berlin.devsitetest.how/monitoring/docs/tpc-differences
Last updated: 2026-07-07

- 





[

Home

](https://berlin.devsitetest.how/)






- 








[

Documentation

](https://berlin.devsitetest.how/docs)






- 








[

Observability

](https://berlin.devsitetest.how/docs/observability)






- 








[

Cloud Monitoring

](https://berlin.devsitetest.how/monitoring/docs)






- 








[

Guides

](https://berlin.devsitetest.how/monitoring/docs/monitoring-overview)












# Monitoring in Google Cloud Dedicated versus Google Cloud 






- On this page 
- [ Key differences ](#key-differences)

- [ Workflows and tools ](#workflow-differences)

- [ Recommendations ](#recommendations)
- [ Related guides ](#related-guides)
- 










Cloud Monitoring collects and stores metric data that is generated by
the Google Cloud Dedicated in Germany services that you use.
This page describes the differences between the
Google Cloud Dedicated and Google Cloud versions of Monitoring.



For more detailed information about Monitoring, see the
[Monitoring overview](/monitoring/docs/monitoring-overview) and the rest of the
Monitoring documentation.




You can find recommendations and best practices for using Monitoring in
Google Cloud Dedicated, including recommended alternatives where features differ from
Google Cloud, in the [Recommendations](#recommendations) section.




## Key differences 



There are some differences between the Google Cloud Dedicated version of Monitoring and
the Google Cloud version.

If you are already familiar with Google Cloud, we recommend that you review these
differences carefully, particularly before designing an application to run on
Google Cloud Dedicated. We also recommend reviewing the [
general differences between Google Cloud Dedicated and Google Cloud](/docs/overview/tpc-key-differences).




If you would like to use a particular Monitoring feature that isn't currently
available in Google Cloud Dedicated, contact
[Google Cloud Dedicated support](/docs/overview/gcd-support).
To be notified when new features roll out in Google Cloud Dedicated, subscribe to the
[release notes](/release-notes). Unless otherwise specified, features that are in preview are not available in
Google Cloud Dedicated.




### Workflows and tools



| 
**[Cloud Monitoring API](/monitoring/api/v3)**
| 


API methods for the following are available:




- Listing metric types.

- Listing resource types.

- Listing metric values.

- Exporting metrics by using the Prometheus API methods.




All other Cloud Monitoring API methods are unavailable.

| 
|

| 
**[Collection of metrics](/monitoring/docs/collect-metrics-overview)**
| 


Metrics are collected for your Google Cloud Dedicated in Germany services.



The following are unavailable:




- Collecting metrics by using the Ops Agent or the legacy
Monitoring agent.

- Collecting metrics by using any client library or open-source
framework like OpenTelemetry.

- Collecting metrics from on-prem or hybrid-cloud configurations.

- Collecting Prometheus metrics.

- Collecting custom metrics.


| 
|

| 
**Monitoring services**

(alerting policies, uptime checks, synthetic monitors) 
| 
Unavailable. | 
|

| 
**[PromQL queries](/monitoring/promql)** | 
Available | 
|

| 
**Visualization services**

(charts and dashboards) | 
Unavailable. | 
|

| 
**Multi-project aggregation**

(metrics scopes) | 
Unavailable. | 
|




## Recommendations




- Use PromQL and [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) to query
and visualize your metric data. For more information, see
[PromQL in Cloud Monitoring](/monitoring/promql).





## Related guides



The following information might also affect how you use and design for Monitoring
in Google Cloud Dedicated in Germany. These guides include general information about working in Google Cloud Dedicated,
including documentation, security and access control, billing, tooling, and service usage.



For details about other services and features in Google Cloud Dedicated and their differences from
their Google Cloud counterparts, see the [product list.](https://berlin.devsitetest.how/products)





- 


[Google Cloud Dedicated in Germany overview](/docs/overview/tpc-overview)




- 


[Key differences between Google Cloud Dedicated in Germany and Google Cloud](/docs/overview/tpc-key-differences)